# Book Sale Analysis

## Meta Data
The dataset contains multiple columns that provide different kinds of information:

- Book Name: The title of each book.

- Author: The name of the author who wrote the book.

- language_code: The code representing the language in which the book is written.

- Author_Rating: The rating assigned to the author based on their previous works.

- Book_average_rating: The average rating given to the book by readers.

- Book_ratings_count: The number of ratings given to the book by readers.

- genre: The genre or category to which the book belongs.

- gross sales: The total sales revenue generated by each book.

- publisher revenue: The revenue earned by publishers from selling each book.

- sale price: The price at which each copy of a book is sold.

- sales rank: A numeric value indicating a book's rank based on its sales performance in comparison to other books within its category (genre).

- units sold : Total number of copies sold for each specific title.

  ## Insights
1.  There was a drop in sale from 2007 to 2008. Sales continue in an uptrend and reaches its peak in **2012** with over 40 million gross sales before dropping massively 
    from 2013 upward.

2.  68 books was published in 2012, which was the highest number of books published.

3.  The most popular genre is **Fiction** with over 800 books published and over 8 million units sold.

4.  Author rated **Intermediate** sold more books with over 4 million books sold followed closely by Excellent rated Author.

5.  There is a strong correlation between the units sold and gross sale. Book_average_rating and sale price has no correlation with the number of units sold or gross sales.

6.  The most popular book was without a name, the second most popular book was **New Moon: The Complete Illustrated Movie Companion** which was written by **Mark Cotta 
    Vaz** and  ublished by "Penguin Group (USA) LLC" in 2009.

7.  The best selling Author was **Stephen King** wth **278,322** units of books sold.

8.  Majority of the books were published by **Amazon Digital Services, Inc.** publishing over 50% of the total books published.

## Recommendations
- Fiction being the most selling genre category indicates a strong customer buying preference. Publishers can develop targeted and innovative marketing campaigns for fiction titles books .

- Publishers should identify and invest in popular fiction authors. Their established fan base can drive sales, and marketing efforts can be focused on promoting their latest releases.

- Publishers should continuously conduct market research to identify emerging trends and reader preferences. Stay informed about what is resonating with readers to guide publishing decisions.

- For the low selling genres publishers should develop creative and innovative marketing strategies to generate interest in the genre. This might involve leveraging social media, creating interactive content, or partnering with influencers who have a specific interest in the niche.

- Publishers should consider offering bundle deals or promotions for the low-selling genre. Combining books at a discounted rate can encourage readers to explore new titles within the genre.
